. "Benchmark" (i.e., graph size)

Attached is anonymized version of some production graph statistics I gathered recently, showing the wide variety of graph sizes in our production database. For each organization (i.e. "customer"), we have a separate graph. There are currently about 161 node type labels. We have a ISO GQL schema for our graph structure. In that schema, only a few nodes have more than 50 properties and the rest have fewer and many have less than 20 properties:

pipeline, 63 properties
account, 62 properties
meeting, 62 properties
contact, 52 properties

There are 482 different relationship labels.

Our graph is structured with a "primary node tree" that is a subgraph extending one of about 35 different primary node types (e.g., account, contact, etc.). This tree represents substructure such as an address for a contact is a separate node with a relationship with a label of "address" between them.

Other relationships exist between these primary nodes such as the link from an account to the user that created or updated it.  We haven't computed any graph metrics recently, such as density. I'm not certain that would be particularly helpful. It is fair to say the graph is highly connected and there should be no isolated nodes (i.e., at minimum, a node is part of some primary tree and the primary node will have relationships to at least users).

2. Using Falkor's internal ID is a non-starter. Using an internal database ID in your data is always a bad idea; we would still require a mapping that would depend an ordering which could not be guaranteed. We generate unique UUID values at the application layer and will generate UUID5 values for various computed identifiers. This way, every node in the graph will have a unique id value associated with it. We want a range index on a UUID (a 128-bit unsigned integer) so we do not have to serialize a UUID into a long string value that is indexed.

3. After measuring the cost and efficiency of using a single label "entity" with a range index on the id property, we are moving forward with an approach that combines that along with a "@type" property (similar to JSON-LD's @type).  We won't be indexing "@type" as it appears to actually decrease performance in our testing. When updating a graph, we'll use merge statements like the following:

MERGE (n:entity {id: '...', `@type`: 'account'})

During a relationship creation, if a node is created as a placeholder, we mark it as inactive:

MERGE (s:entity {id: '...', `@type`: 'account})
ON CREATE SET n:inactive

When the node is updated, we remove that label and set the primary node label:

MERGE (n:entity {id: '...', `@type`: 'account'})
REMOVE n:inactive
SET n:account

We do this because "inactive" nodes are incomplete nodes that may get created for various reasons (i.e., in-progress updates, incorrect data, etc.). We will have a variety of changes coming from CDC where the order of updates is not guaranteed. So, a source or destination of a relationship might not exist before we create the relationship, etc. When the primary label is added to the node, it becomes part of the "active graph" that we can query with our application. Nodes that only have the "entity" label can't be queried by the application but we know their intended type via the "@type" property. The inactive label is merely a convenient label to support finding nodes in the inactive part of the graph. Ideally, at any point the inactive partition of the graph is very small or empty.

Using this approach, my assumption is that we'll have one very dense "column" in the label matrices for the entity label. We will also have some constant churn on the inactive label as new nodes are created. Assuming the graph is correct and stable, those nodes are only for new data. Existing nodes that have a primary label should never be relabeled with the inactive label.

I was curious about the overhead cost of having a single label and single index on the id property for all nodes. We have graphs already with millions of nodes and that number will only grow.


